README.md, before:

# Linux Server Configuration

This is the final project for Udacity's [Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/full-stack-web-developer-nanodegree--nd004). 

This page explains how to secure and set up a Linux distribution on a virtual machine, install and configure a web and database server to host a web application. 
- The Linux distribution is [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/server) 16.04 LTS.
- The virtual private server is [Amazon Lighsail](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/).
- The web application is my [Item Catalog project](https://github.com/mani11/BooksCatalog.git)
- The database server is [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/).
- My local machine is a MacBook Pro (Mac OS X 10_14_3).

You can visit http://54.213.226.57/ or http://54.213.226.57.xip.io to view the website deployed.

## Get a server

### Step 1: Start a new Ubuntu Linux server instance on Amazon Lightsail 

- Login into [Amazon Lightsail](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/ls/webapp/home/resources) using an Amazon Web Services account.
- Once you are login into the site, click `Create instance`. 
- Choose `Linux/Unix` platform, `OS Only` and  `Ubuntu 16.04 LTS`.
- Choose a instance plan.
- Keep the default name provided by AWS or rename your instance.
- Click the `Create` button to create the instance.
- Wait for the instance to start up.

### Step 2: SSH into the server

- From the `Account` menu on Amazon Lightsail, click on `SSH keys` tab and download the Default Private Key.
- Move this private key file named `LightsailDefaultPrivateKey-*.pem` into the local folder `~/.ssh` and rename it `lightsail_key.rsa`.
- In your terminal, type: `chmod 600 ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa`.
- To connect to the instance via the terminal: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa ubuntu@54.213.226.57`, 
  where `54.213.226.57` is the public IP address of the instance.

<!--
Public IP address is 54.213.226.57
ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa ubuntu@54.213.226.57
-->

## Secure the server

### Step 3: Update and upgrade installed packages

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```


### Step 4: Change the SSH port from 22 to 2200

- Edit the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file: `sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config`.
- Change the port number from `22` to `2200`. This is to disable the default SSH login on port 22
- Save and exit using CTRL+X and confirm with Y.
- Restart SSH: `sudo service ssh restart`.

### Step 5: Configure the Uncomplicated Firewall (UFW)

- Configure the default firewall for Ubuntu to only allow incoming connections for SSH (port 2200), HTTP (port 80), and NTP (port 123).
  ```
  sudo ufw status                  # The UFW should be inactive.
  sudo ufw default deny incoming   # Deny any incoming traffic.
  sudo ufw default allow outgoing  # Enable outgoing traffic.
  sudo ufw allow 2200/tcp          # Allow incoming tcp packets on port 2200.
  sudo ufw allow www               # Allow HTTP traffic in.
  sudo ufw allow 123/udp           # Allow incoming udp packets on port 123.
  ```

- Turn UFW on: `sudo ufw enable`. The output should be like this:
  ```
  Command may disrupt existing ssh connections. Proceed with operation (y|n)? y
  Firewall is active and enabled on system startup
  ```

- Check the status of UFW to list current roles: `sudo ufw status`. The output should be like this:

```
  Status: active
  
To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
2200/tcp                   ALLOW       Anywhere                  
80/tcp                     ALLOW       Anywhere                  
123/udp                    ALLOW       Anywhere                  
2200/tcp (v6)              ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
80/tcp (v6)                ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
123/udp (v6)               ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)  
```

- Exit the SSH connection: `exit`.

- Click on the `Manage` option of the Amazon Lightsail Instance, 
then the `Networking` tab, and then change the firewall configuration to match the internal firewall settings above.

- Allow ports 80(TCP), 123(UDP), and 2200(TCP)

- From your local terminal, run: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa -p 2200 ubuntu@54.213.226.57`, where `54.213.226.57` is the public IP address of the instance.

<!--
Public IP address is 54.213.226.57.
ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa -p 2200 ubuntu@54.213.226.57
-->

**References**
- Official Ubuntu Documentation, [UFW - Uncomplicated Firewall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW).
- TechRepublic, [How to install and use Uncomplicated Firewall in Ubuntu](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-and-use-uncomplicated-firewall-in-ubuntu/).

## Give `grader` access


### Step 6: Create a new user account named `grader`

- While logged in as `ubuntu`, add user: `sudo adduser grader`. 
- Enter a password and fill out information for this new user.


### Step 7: Give `grader` the permission to sudo

Create a new directory in sudoer directory with sudo nano /etc/sudoers.d/grader

Add grader ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL in nano editor

**Resources**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Add and Delete Users on an Ubuntu 14.04 VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-and-delete-users-on-an-ubuntu-14-04-vps)


### Step 8: Create an SSH key pair for `grader` using the `ssh-keygen` tool

- On the local machine:
  - Run `ssh-keygen`
  - Enter file in which to save the key (Eg: `grader_key`) in the local directory `~/.ssh`
  - Enter in a passphrase twice. Two files will be generated (  `~/.ssh/grader_key` and `~/.ssh/grader_key.pub`)
  - Run `cat ~/.ssh/grader_key.pub` and copy the contents of the file
  - Log in to the grader's virtual machine
- On the grader's virtual machine:
  - Create a new directory called `~/.ssh` (`mkdir .ssh`)
  - Run `sudo nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys` and paste the content into this file, save and exit
  - Give the permissions: `chmod 700 .ssh` and `chmod 644 .ssh/authorized_keys`
  - Check in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file if `PasswordAuthentication` is set to `no`
  - Restart SSH: `sudo service ssh restart`
- On the local machine, run: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/grader_key -p 2200 grader@54.213.226.57`.

**References**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Set Up SSH Keys](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-ssh-keys--2).
- Ubuntu Wiki, [SSH/OpenSSH/Keys](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys).



## Prepare to deploy the project

### Step 9: Configure the local timezone to UTC

- While logged in as `grader`, configure the time zone: `sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata`

**References**
- Ubuntu Wiki, [UbuntuTime](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuTime)
- Ask Ubuntu, [How do I change my timezone to UTC/GMT?](https://askubuntu.com/questions/138423/how-do-i-change-my-timezone-to-utc-gmt/138442)



### Step 10: Install and configure Apache to serve a Python mod_wsgi application

- While logged in as `grader`, install Apache: `sudo apt-get install apache2`.
- Enter public IP of the Amazon Lightsail instance into browser. If Apache is working, you should see the apache default page

- Install the Python 3 mod_wsgi package:  
 `sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3`.
- Enable `mod_wsgi` using: `sudo a2enmod wsgi`.


### Step 11: Install and configure PostgreSQL

- While logged in as `grader`, install PostgreSQL:
 `sudo apt-get install postgresql`.
- Switch to the `postgres` user: `sudo su - postgres`.
- Open PostgreSQL interactive terminal with `psql`.
- Create the `catalog` user with a password and give them the ability to create databases:
  ```
  postgres=# CREATE ROLE catalog WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'catalog';
  postgres=# ALTER ROLE catalog CREATEDB;
  ```

- List the existing roles: `\du`. The output should be like this:
  ```
                                     List of roles
   Role name |                         Attributes                         | Member of 
  -----------+------------------------------------------------------------+-----------
   catalog   | Create DB                                                  | {}
   postgres  | Superuser, Create role, Create DB, Replication, Bypass RLS | {}
  ```

- Exit psql: `\q`.
- Switch back to the `grader` user: `exit`.
- Create a new Linux user called `catalog`: `sudo adduser catalog`. Enter password and fill out information.
- Give to `catalog` user the permission to sudo.
- Create a new directory in sudoer directory with sudo nano /etc/sudoers.d/catalog

Add grader ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL in nano editor

- Save and exit using CTRL+X and confirm with Y.
- Verify that `catalog` has sudo permissions. Run `su - catalog`, enter the password, run `sudo -l` and enter the password again. The output should be like this:

  ```
  Matching Defaults entries for catalog on ip-172-26-13-170.us-east-2.compute.internal:
      env_reset, mail_badpass,
      secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin
  
  User catalog may run the following commands on ip-172-26-13-170.us-east-2.compute.internal:
      (ALL : ALL) ALL
  ```

- While logged in as `catalog`, create a database: `createdb catalog`.
- Run `psql` and then run `\l` to see that the new database has been created. The output should be like this:
  ```
                                    List of databases
     Name    |  Owner   | Encoding |   Collate   |    Ctype    |   Access privileges   
  -----------+----------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----------------------
   catalog   | catalog  | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | 
   postgres  | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | 
   template0 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | =c/postgres          +
             |          |          |             |             | postgres=CTc/postgres
   template1 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | =c/postgres          +
             |          |          |             |             | postgres=CTc/postgres
  (4 rows)
  ```
- Exit psql: `\q`.
- Switch back to the `grader` user: `exit`.

**Reference**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Secure PostgreSQL on an Ubuntu VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-secure-postgresql-on-an-ubuntu-vps).



### Step 12: Install git

- While logged in as `grader`, install `git`: `sudo apt-get install git`.

## Deploy the Item Catalog project

### Step 13.1: Clone and setup the Item Catalog project from the GitHub repository 

- While logged in as `grader`, create `/var/www/catalog/` directory.
- Change to that directory and clone the catalog project:<br>
`sudo git clone https://github.com/mani11/Linux-Configuration.git`.
- From the `/var/www` directory, change the ownership of the `catalog` directory to `grader` using: `sudo chown -R grader:grader catalog/`.
- Change to the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Congiguration/catalog` directory.
- Rename the `Books.py` file to `__init__.py` using: `mv application.py __init__.py`.

- In `__init__.py`, replace line:
  ```
  # app.run(host="0.0.0.0", port=8000, debug=True)
  app.run()
  ```

- In `database_setup.py`, `dataset.py`,`Books.py` replace the following line:
   ```
   # engine = engine = create_engine('sqlite:///books.db')
   engine = create_engine('postgresql://catalog:password@localhost/catalog')
   ``` 

### Step 13.2: Authenticate login through Google

- Go to [Google Cloud Plateform](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
- Click `APIs & services` on left menu.
- Click `Credentials`.
- Create an OAuth Client ID (under the Credentials tab), and add http://54.213.226.57 and 
http://54.213.226.57.xip.io as authorized JavaScript 
origins.
- Add 	http://54.213.226.57.xip.io/login
as authorized redirect URI.
- Download the corresponding JSON file, open it et copy the contents.
- Open `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/client_secret.json` and paste the previous contents into the this file.
- Replace the client ID in `templates/login.html` file in the project directory.

<!--
### Step 13.3: Authenticate login through Facebook

- Go to [Facebook for Developers](https://developers.facebook.com/).
- Click `My Apps` and click `Add a New App`. 
- Enter as `Display Name` then name `catalog`, enter your email and click 
`Create App ID`.
- Click `Set Up` button of the `Facebook Login` card.
- Choose Web Plateform.
- Enter `http://13.59.39.163/` as site URL and ckick `Save` button.
- Click `Settings` under `Facebook Login`, and put `http://13.59.39.163/` and 
`http://ec2-13-59-39-163.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com/` as the Valid OAuth redirect URIs, and click `Save Changes` button.
- Click `Dashboard` on left menu. You should see `API Version` and `App ID` for the `catalog` application.
- Replace the `appId` and `version`, respectively on lines 74 and 78 of the `templates/login.html`, with the correspoding `App ID` and `API Version`.
- Open `/var/www/catalog/catalog/fb_client_secrets.json` file and replace `app_id` and `app_secret`.
-->

### Step 14.1: Install the virtual environment and dependencies

- While logged in as `grader`, install pip: `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`.
- Install the virtual environment: `sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv`
- Change to the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/` directory.
- Create the virtual environment: `sudo virtualenv -p python3 venv3`.
- Change the ownership to `grader` with: `sudo chown -R grader:grader venv3/`.
- Activate the new environment: `. venv3/bin/activate`.
- Install the following dependencies:
  ```
  pip install httplib2
  pip install requests
  pip install --upgrade oauth2client
  pip install sqlalchemy
  pip install flask
  sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
  pip install psycopg2
  pip install Flask
  ```

- Run `python3 __init__.py` and you should see:
  ```
  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
  ```

- Deactivate the virtual environment: `deactivate`.

**References**
- Flask documentation, [virtualenv](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/installation/).
- [Create a Python 3 virtual environment](https://superuser.com/questions/1039369/create-a-python-3-virtual-environment).






### Step 14.2: Set up and enable a virtual host

- Add the following line in `/etc/apache2/mods-enabled/wsgi.conf` file 
to use Python 3.

  ```
  #WSGIPythonPath directory|directory-1:directory-2:...
  WSGIPythonPath /var/www/catalog/catalog/venv3/lib/python3.5/site-packages
  ```

- Create `/etc/apache2/sites-available/catalog.conf` and add the 
following lines to configure the virtual host:

  ```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName 54.213.226.57
  ServerAdmin  admin@54.213.226.57
    WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog.wsgi
    <Directory /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/>
       Order allow,deny
         Allow from all
    </Directory>
    Alias /static /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/static
    <Directory /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/static/>
          Order allow,deny
          Allow from all
    </Directory>
    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    LogLevel warn
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
  ```

- Enable virtual host: `sudo a2ensite catalog`. The following prompt will be returned:
  ```
  Enabling site catalog.
  To activate the new configuration, you need to run:
    service apache2 reload
  ```

- Reload Apache: `sudo service apache2 reload`.

**Resources** 
- [Getting Flask to use Python3 (Apache/mod_wsgi)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30642894/getting-flask-to-use-python3-apache-mod-wsgi)
- [Run mod_wsgi with virtualenv or Python with version different that system default](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27450998/run-mod-wsgi-with-virtualenv-or-python-with-version-different-that-system-defaul)


### Step 14.3: Set up the Flask application

- Create `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog.wsgi` file add the following lines:

`
 activate_this = '/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/venv3/bin/activate_this.py'
with open(activate_this) as file_:
    exec(file_.read(), dict(__file__=activate_this))

#!/usr/bin/python
import sys
import logging
logging.basicConfig(stream=sys.stderr)
sys.path.insert(0, "/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/")
sys.path.insert(1, "/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration")

from catalog import app as application
application.secret_key = "super_secret_key"

  `

- Restart Apache: `sudo service apache2 restart`.

**Resource** 
- Flask documentation, [Working with Virtual Environments](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/deploying/mod_wsgi/#working-with-virtual-environments)


### Step 14.4: Set up the database schema and populate the database


- From the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/` directory, 
activate the virtual environment: `. venv3/bin/activate`.
- Run: `python3 database_setup.py`.
- Run `python3 dataset.py`
- Deactivate the virtual environment: `deactivate`.

### Step 14.5: Disable the default Apache site

- Disable the default Apache site: `sudo a2dissite 000-default.conf`. 
The following prompt will be returned:

  ```
  Site 000-default disabled.
  To activate the new configuration, you need to run:
    service apache2 reload
  ```

- Reload Apache: `sudo service apache2 reload`.

### Step 14.6: Launch the Web Application

- Open your browser to http://54.213.226.57/


## Useful commands

 - To get log messages from Apache server: `sudo tail /var/log/apache2/error.log`.
 - To restart Apache: `sudo service apache2 restart`.


## Other Helpful Resources

- DigitalOcean [How To Deploy a Flask Application on an Ubuntu VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-deploy-a-flask-application-on-an-ubuntu-vps)
- GitHub Repositories 
  - [boisalai/udacity-linux-server-configuration](https://github.com/boisalai/udacity-linux-server-configuration)

Commit message:

Updating passphrase and password for grader user

README.md, after:

# Linux Server Configuration

This is the final project for Udacity's [Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree](https://www.udacity.com/course/full-stack-web-developer-nanodegree--nd004). 

This page explains how to secure and set up a Linux distribution on a virtual machine, install and configure a web and database server to host a web application. 
- The Linux distribution is [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/server) 16.04 LTS.
- The virtual private server is [Amazon Lighsail](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/).
- The web application is my [Item Catalog project](https://github.com/mani11/BooksCatalog.git)
- The database server is [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/).
- My local machine is a MacBook Pro (Mac OS X 10_14_3).

You can visit http://54.213.226.57/ or http://54.213.226.57.xip.io to view the website deployed.

## Get a server

### Step 1: Start a new Ubuntu Linux server instance on Amazon Lightsail 

- Login into [Amazon Lightsail](https://lightsail.aws.amazon.com/ls/webapp/home/resources) using an Amazon Web Services account.
- Once you are login into the site, click `Create instance`. 
- Choose `Linux/Unix` platform, `OS Only` and  `Ubuntu 16.04 LTS`.
- Choose a instance plan.
- Keep the default name provided by AWS or rename your instance.
- Click the `Create` button to create the instance.
- Wait for the instance to start up.

### Step 2: SSH into the server

- From the `Account` menu on Amazon Lightsail, click on `SSH keys` tab and download the Default Private Key.
- Move this private key file named `LightsailDefaultPrivateKey-*.pem` into the local folder `~/.ssh` and rename it `lightsail_key.rsa`.
- In your terminal, type: `chmod 600 ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa`.
- To connect to the instance via the terminal: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa ubuntu@54.213.226.57`, 
  where `54.213.226.57` is the public IP address of the instance.

<!--
Public IP address is 54.213.226.57
ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa ubuntu@54.213.226.57
-->

## Secure the server

### Step 3: Update and upgrade installed packages

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```


### Step 4: Change the SSH port from 22 to 2200

- Edit the `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file: `sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config`.
- Change the port number from `22` to `2200`. This is to disable the default SSH login on port 22
- Save and exit using CTRL+X and confirm with Y.
- Restart SSH: `sudo service ssh restart`.

### Step 5: Configure the Uncomplicated Firewall (UFW)

- Configure the default firewall for Ubuntu to only allow incoming connections for SSH (port 2200), HTTP (port 80), and NTP (port 123).
  ```
  sudo ufw status                  # The UFW should be inactive.
  sudo ufw default deny incoming   # Deny any incoming traffic.
  sudo ufw default allow outgoing  # Enable outgoing traffic.
  sudo ufw allow 2200/tcp          # Allow incoming tcp packets on port 2200.
  sudo ufw allow www               # Allow HTTP traffic in.
  sudo ufw allow 123/udp           # Allow incoming udp packets on port 123.
  ```

- Turn UFW on: `sudo ufw enable`. The output should be like this:
  ```
  Command may disrupt existing ssh connections. Proceed with operation (y|n)? y
  Firewall is active and enabled on system startup
  ```

- Check the status of UFW to list current roles: `sudo ufw status`. The output should be like this:

```
  Status: active
  
To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
2200/tcp                   ALLOW       Anywhere                  
80/tcp                     ALLOW       Anywhere                  
123/udp                    ALLOW       Anywhere                  
2200/tcp (v6)              ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
80/tcp (v6)                ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)             
123/udp (v6)               ALLOW       Anywhere (v6)  
```

- Exit the SSH connection: `exit`.

- Click on the `Manage` option of the Amazon Lightsail Instance, 
then the `Networking` tab, and then change the firewall configuration to match the internal firewall settings above.

- Allow ports 80(TCP), 123(UDP), and 2200(TCP)

- From your local terminal, run: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa -p 2200 ubuntu@54.213.226.57`, where `54.213.226.57` is the public IP address of the instance.

<!--
Public IP address is 54.213.226.57.
ssh -i ~/.ssh/lightsail_key.rsa -p 2200 ubuntu@54.213.226.57
-->

**References**
- Official Ubuntu Documentation, [UFW - Uncomplicated Firewall](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW).
- TechRepublic, [How to install and use Uncomplicated Firewall in Ubuntu](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-and-use-uncomplicated-firewall-in-ubuntu/).

## Give `grader` access


### Step 6: Create a new user account named `grader`

- While logged in as `ubuntu`, add user: `sudo adduser grader`. 
- Enter a password and fill out information for this new user.


### Step 7: Give `grader` the permission to sudo

Create a new directory in sudoer directory with sudo nano /etc/sudoers.d/grader

Add grader ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL in nano editor

**Resources**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Add and Delete Users on an Ubuntu 14.04 VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-and-delete-users-on-an-ubuntu-14-04-vps)


### Step 8: Create an SSH key pair for `grader` using the `ssh-keygen` tool

- On the local machine:
  - Run `ssh-keygen`
  - Enter file in which to save the key (Eg: `grader_key`) in the local directory `~/.ssh`
  - Enter in a passphrase twice. Two files will be generated (  `~/.ssh/grader_key` and `~/.ssh/grader_key.pub`)
  - Run `cat ~/.ssh/grader_key.pub` and copy the contents of the file
  - Log in to the grader's virtual machine
- On the grader's virtual machine:
  - Create a new directory called `~/.ssh` (`mkdir .ssh`)
  - Run `sudo nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys` and paste the content into this file, save and exit
  - Give the permissions: `chmod 700 .ssh` and `chmod 644 .ssh/authorized_keys`
  - Check in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file if `PasswordAuthentication` is set to `no`
  - Restart SSH: `sudo service ssh restart`
- On the local machine, run: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/grader_key -p 2200 grader@54.213.226.57`.

#### passphrase for grader user

India@123

#### password for grader

grader



**References**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Set Up SSH Keys](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-ssh-keys--2).
- Ubuntu Wiki, [SSH/OpenSSH/Keys](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys).



## Prepare to deploy the project

### Step 9: Configure the local timezone to UTC

- While logged in as `grader`, configure the time zone: `sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata`

**References**
- Ubuntu Wiki, [UbuntuTime](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuTime)
- Ask Ubuntu, [How do I change my timezone to UTC/GMT?](https://askubuntu.com/questions/138423/how-do-i-change-my-timezone-to-utc-gmt/138442)



### Step 10: Install and configure Apache to serve a Python mod_wsgi application

- While logged in as `grader`, install Apache: `sudo apt-get install apache2`.
- Enter public IP of the Amazon Lightsail instance into browser. If Apache is working, you should see the apache default page

- Install the Python 3 mod_wsgi package:  
 `sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3`.
- Enable `mod_wsgi` using: `sudo a2enmod wsgi`.


### Step 11: Install and configure PostgreSQL

- While logged in as `grader`, install PostgreSQL:
 `sudo apt-get install postgresql`.
- Switch to the `postgres` user: `sudo su - postgres`.
- Open PostgreSQL interactive terminal with `psql`.
- Create the `catalog` user with a password and give them the ability to create databases:
  ```
  postgres=# CREATE ROLE catalog WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'catalog';
  postgres=# ALTER ROLE catalog CREATEDB;
  ```

- List the existing roles: `\du`. The output should be like this:
  ```
                                     List of roles
   Role name |                         Attributes                         | Member of 
  -----------+------------------------------------------------------------+-----------
   catalog   | Create DB                                                  | {}
   postgres  | Superuser, Create role, Create DB, Replication, Bypass RLS | {}
  ```

- Exit psql: `\q`.
- Switch back to the `grader` user: `exit`.
- Create a new Linux user called `catalog`: `sudo adduser catalog`. Enter password and fill out information.
- Give to `catalog` user the permission to sudo.
- Create a new directory in sudoer directory with sudo nano /etc/sudoers.d/catalog

Add grader ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL in nano editor

- Save and exit using CTRL+X and confirm with Y.
- Verify that `catalog` has sudo permissions. Run `su - catalog`, enter the password, run `sudo -l` and enter the password again. The output should be like this:

  ```
  Matching Defaults entries for catalog on ip-172-26-13-170.us-east-2.compute.internal:
      env_reset, mail_badpass,
      secure_path=/usr/local/sbin\:/usr/local/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin\:/sbin\:/bin\:/snap/bin
  
  User catalog may run the following commands on ip-172-26-13-170.us-east-2.compute.internal:
      (ALL : ALL) ALL
  ```

- While logged in as `catalog`, create a database: `createdb catalog`.
- Run `psql` and then run `\l` to see that the new database has been created. The output should be like this:
  ```
                                    List of databases
     Name    |  Owner   | Encoding |   Collate   |    Ctype    |   Access privileges   
  -----------+----------+----------+-------------+-------------+-----------------------
   catalog   | catalog  | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | 
   postgres  | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | 
   template0 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | =c/postgres          +
             |          |          |             |             | postgres=CTc/postgres
   template1 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 | =c/postgres          +
             |          |          |             |             | postgres=CTc/postgres
  (4 rows)
  ```
- Exit psql: `\q`.
- Switch back to the `grader` user: `exit`.

**Reference**
- DigitalOcean, [How To Secure PostgreSQL on an Ubuntu VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-secure-postgresql-on-an-ubuntu-vps).



### Step 12: Install git

- While logged in as `grader`, install `git`: `sudo apt-get install git`.

## Deploy the Item Catalog project

### Step 13.1: Clone and setup the Item Catalog project from the GitHub repository 

- While logged in as `grader`, create `/var/www/catalog/` directory.
- Change to that directory and clone the catalog project:<br>
`sudo git clone https://github.com/mani11/Linux-Configuration.git`.
- From the `/var/www` directory, change the ownership of the `catalog` directory to `grader` using: `sudo chown -R grader:grader catalog/`.
- Change to the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Congiguration/catalog` directory.
- Rename the `Books.py` file to `__init__.py` using: `mv application.py __init__.py`.

- In `__init__.py`, replace line:
  ```
  # app.run(host="0.0.0.0", port=8000, debug=True)
  app.run()
  ```

- In `database_setup.py`, `dataset.py`,`Books.py` replace the following line:
   ```
   # engine = engine = create_engine('sqlite:///books.db')
   engine = create_engine('postgresql://catalog:password@localhost/catalog')
   ``` 

### Step 13.2: Authenticate login through Google

- Go to [Google Cloud Plateform](https://console.cloud.google.com/).
- Click `APIs & services` on left menu.
- Click `Credentials`.
- Create an OAuth Client ID (under the Credentials tab), and add http://54.213.226.57 and 
http://54.213.226.57.xip.io as authorized JavaScript 
origins.
- Add 	http://54.213.226.57.xip.io/login
as authorized redirect URI.
- Download the corresponding JSON file, open it et copy the contents.
- Open `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/client_secret.json` and paste the previous contents into the this file.
- Replace the client ID in `templates/login.html` file in the project directory.

<!--
### Step 13.3: Authenticate login through Facebook

- Go to [Facebook for Developers](https://developers.facebook.com/).
- Click `My Apps` and click `Add a New App`. 
- Enter as `Display Name` then name `catalog`, enter your email and click 
`Create App ID`.
- Click `Set Up` button of the `Facebook Login` card.
- Choose Web Plateform.
- Enter `http://13.59.39.163/` as site URL and ckick `Save` button.
- Click `Settings` under `Facebook Login`, and put `http://13.59.39.163/` and 
`http://ec2-13-59-39-163.us-east-2.compute.amazonaws.com/` as the Valid OAuth redirect URIs, and click `Save Changes` button.
- Click `Dashboard` on left menu. You should see `API Version` and `App ID` for the `catalog` application.
- Replace the `appId` and `version`, respectively on lines 74 and 78 of the `templates/login.html`, with the correspoding `App ID` and `API Version`.
- Open `/var/www/catalog/catalog/fb_client_secrets.json` file and replace `app_id` and `app_secret`.
-->

### Step 14.1: Install the virtual environment and dependencies

- While logged in as `grader`, install pip: `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`.
- Install the virtual environment: `sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv`
- Change to the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/` directory.
- Create the virtual environment: `sudo virtualenv -p python3 venv3`.
- Change the ownership to `grader` with: `sudo chown -R grader:grader venv3/`.
- Activate the new environment: `. venv3/bin/activate`.
- Install the following dependencies:
  ```
  pip install httplib2
  pip install requests
  pip install --upgrade oauth2client
  pip install sqlalchemy
  pip install flask
  sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
  pip install psycopg2
  pip install Flask
  ```

- Run `python3 __init__.py` and you should see:
  ```
  * Running on http://127.0.0.1:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
  ```

- Deactivate the virtual environment: `deactivate`.

**References**
- Flask documentation, [virtualenv](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/installation/).
- [Create a Python 3 virtual environment](https://superuser.com/questions/1039369/create-a-python-3-virtual-environment).






### Step 14.2: Set up and enable a virtual host

- Add the following line in `/etc/apache2/mods-enabled/wsgi.conf` file 
to use Python 3.

  ```
  #WSGIPythonPath directory|directory-1:directory-2:...
  WSGIPythonPath /var/www/catalog/catalog/venv3/lib/python3.5/site-packages
  ```

- Create `/etc/apache2/sites-available/catalog.conf` and add the 
following lines to configure the virtual host:

  ```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName 54.213.226.57
  ServerAdmin  admin@54.213.226.57
    WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog.wsgi
    <Directory /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/>
       Order allow,deny
         Allow from all
    </Directory>
    Alias /static /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/static
    <Directory /var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/static/>
          Order allow,deny
          Allow from all
    </Directory>
    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
    LogLevel warn
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
  ```

- Enable virtual host: `sudo a2ensite catalog`. The following prompt will be returned:
  ```
  Enabling site catalog.
  To activate the new configuration, you need to run:
    service apache2 reload
  ```

- Reload Apache: `sudo service apache2 reload`.

**Resources** 
- [Getting Flask to use Python3 (Apache/mod_wsgi)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30642894/getting-flask-to-use-python3-apache-mod-wsgi)
- [Run mod_wsgi with virtualenv or Python with version different that system default](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27450998/run-mod-wsgi-with-virtualenv-or-python-with-version-different-that-system-defaul)


### Step 14.3: Set up the Flask application

- Create `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog.wsgi` file add the following lines:

`
 activate_this = '/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/venv3/bin/activate_this.py'
with open(activate_this) as file_:
    exec(file_.read(), dict(__file__=activate_this))

#!/usr/bin/python
import sys
import logging
logging.basicConfig(stream=sys.stderr)
sys.path.insert(0, "/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/")
sys.path.insert(1, "/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration")

from catalog import app as application
application.secret_key = "super_secret_key"

  `

- Restart Apache: `sudo service apache2 restart`.

**Resource** 
- Flask documentation, [Working with Virtual Environments](http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.12/deploying/mod_wsgi/#working-with-virtual-environments)


### Step 14.4: Set up the database schema and populate the database


- From the `/var/www/catalog/Linux-Configuration/catalog/` directory, 
activate the virtual environment: `. venv3/bin/activate`.
- Run: `python3 database_setup.py`.
- Run `python3 dataset.py`
- Deactivate the virtual environment: `deactivate`.

### Step 14.5: Disable the default Apache site

- Disable the default Apache site: `sudo a2dissite 000-default.conf`. 
The following prompt will be returned:

  ```
  Site 000-default disabled.
  To activate the new configuration, you need to run:
    service apache2 reload
  ```

- Reload Apache: `sudo service apache2 reload`.

### Step 14.6: Launch the Web Application

- Open your browser to http://54.213.226.57/


## Useful commands

 - To get log messages from Apache server: `sudo tail /var/log/apache2/error.log`.
 - To restart Apache: `sudo service apache2 restart`.


## Other Helpful Resources

- DigitalOcean [How To Deploy a Flask Application on an Ubuntu VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-deploy-a-flask-application-on-an-ubuntu-vps)
- GitHub Repositories 
  - [boisalai/udacity-linux-server-configuration](https://github.com/boisalai/udacity-linux-server-configuration)
